0:0:0.0 --> 0:0:2.370
Host: Hi everyone, my name is Nkiruka Aimienoho and the Experience podcast is a one-on-one interview lead podcast that discusses the adoption and utilisation of relevant emerging technologies and trends. We give impact-oriented professionals, researchers, developers, and students realistic and thought-provoking perspectives on the opportunities and challenges presented by these phenomena in our unique environments. So according to research from cybersecurity ventures, global cybercrime is increasing on average by 15% year on year. By 2025, it is estimated that cybercrime will cost businesses worldwide $10.5 trillion. 
0:0:4.690 --> 0:0:32.420
With this influx of disruptive technologies, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, IoT, and Cloud computing, cybersecurity is an even more important conversation, as we see that, you know, disruption presents major challenges, but also new opportunities. Today, cybersecurity is more than damage control, it has become a prioritised commercial investment for numerous businesses, especially in the financial services industry. So we have the pleasure of speaking with Adeoluwa Akomolafe, the Chief Information Security Officer of Wema bank. He's joining us today to talk about some of the disruptive trends we foresee, having a security impact, and what this means for the future of Nigeria's cybersecurity landscape. You're welcome, Ade.
0:0:32.960 --> 0:0:40.460
Host: Okay, so I'll just jump into some questions. I'm sure a lot of our listeners are familiar with Wema bank, its flagship products, and all that. But for those who might not be familiar with cybersecurity practice, could you give us a quick overview of what being a chief information security officer means, and what kind of work it involves?
0:0:41.500 --> 0:1:13.310
Adeoluwa: Okay, thanks Nkiruka. Well, in simple terms, the job of a chief information security officer is basically to drive the information security strategy of the bank, which means you're responsible for ensuring security in building all processes, ensuring that the customer information, data, funds, and whatever we hold there, for the customer is secure. So in simple terms, that's it and it sounds like it's an easy job. But it's not what it says on the cover. 
0:1:14.500 --> 0:1:44.950
And really, it sucks you in and it's something you do 24/7 It's like you're sleeping with one eye open. And you know what we say in the industry, the bad guys are always a step ahead, they are probably more fun than we are. It’s only to just ensure that you have the right infrastructure in place to secure the integrity of the information you hold for your customers, their funds, and whatever is critical to the organisation. Thank you.
0:1:45.770 --> 0:1:51.750
Host: Thank you, Ade. Great. Okay. So over the past year, you know, we've spoken to clients, and we noted common behaviours in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We saw an urgency in scaling up digital infrastructure to enable people to work from home, and a massive increase in the rate of organisations moving, you know, their IT infrastructure to the cloud. Can you tell us how the pandemic specifically affected your role with regard to general operations? Were there new security risks you were seeing? And how did you adapt?
0:1:52.860 --> 0:2:3.50
Adeoluwa: Okay, for Wema bank, from an operational perspective. From the technology side, and I'm talking about the guys in Alat, in the tech space, it's a journey we've been on for a while. But though not out of the bank's policy for people to work remotely. But we've had cases where we have developers working remotely, and they had some form of access to the bank's infrastructure. But with COVID, we had to approach this differently. 
0:2:3.750 --> 0:2:19.250
Now, we had to get more people working remotely, we needed to ensure that the connection is secure. And luckily, we had organisations like Microsoft, and Cisco, providing some form of relief because of COVID. They add solutions they allowed us to sign up for and we sort of run a trial for 90 days before we make any payments. So that enabled us to set up VPN for access to the network first to deploy security also in that space, to ensure that the connection is secure. 
0:4:20.490 --> 0:5:1.720
Of course, there was still a policy around who has access to what and what sort of infrastructure we want people to access remotely. Are there certain applications within the bank that there's still some form of restraint when you say you want people to access this remotely, but that's changing? And we've seen it as something that has come to stay. I worked remotely for a long period pre-COVID. But now, come today, at Wema. We currently have a policy where people can work from home certain days of the week, and be in the office because we also need to control the number of people coming into the office, there still needs to be some social distancing, and all that because COVID is still out there. 

So that's the case for COVID. From a digital journey or transformation side of things, we sort of started that in 2016, up to the point where we launched Alat in 2017. So that journey had started, of course, it also comes with its risk. And we needed to respond to that. For example, outside of the security rates, there was also an impact on infrastructure, we needed to add some infrastructure to be able to serve the number of customers that we were onboarding digitally, and the sort of activities they needed to perform on the application. 
0:5:1.840 --> 0:6:19.40
One thing I say that is lacking in this environment or a lot of people don't sort of take massive concentration for is the impact of clear documentation. You know, if you have clear documentation, then you can build the right processes for whatever it is you're doing. And one other journey we have been on as a bank is robotic process automation, that's also driven by all these changes. And of course, that is to serve customers better. 

So we are automating some of our processes, we've looked at some critical processes, and we are about 80-something percent done. And the feedback from the business is that it made a lot of things faster. And the sort of data, because now you've moved it from someone manually doing things so we don’t get too technical, to some script or application running that process, so the error rate is lower and that has made the business more seamless.
0:6:19.990 --> 0:7:3.380
Host: Interesting. That sounds really interesting, Ade. I'm particularly excited at what the bank is doing to adapt to the new realities that we see. It's interesting. Okay, so naturally, as more companies deepen their digitization efforts in cybercrime, it becomes a more daunting prospect. In May 2020, McAfee reported a 600% increase in the use of cooperation tools, such as zoom, Microsoft, 365, or WebEx, and a 630% increase in external attacks on cloud accounts. So this means that the risk of threat actors targeting the cloud far outweighs the risk brought on by changes in employee behaviour. 

So new working requirements during the pandemic, push the uptake of new technologies and tools, however, unfamiliarity with the tools and lack of expertise creates potential areas of exploitation. So was this something that you were mindful of? And what would you say the biggest security lessons learned were for you over the past year?
0:7:4.190 --> 0:8:18.770
Adeoluwa: For me, I won’t say a lot has changed. Because if you think about it, that you're delivering technology to your staff or customers to do their job or perform transactions, they don't know what's happening at the back end. So it's really on the tech guys and the security guys to ensure that security is inbuilt into fields when you're thinking about cloud migration. Right? And the beauty of it is, technology is moving at a pace where even the OEMs are providing solutions that ensure that you can secure your infrastructure to an extent that comes down to the knowledge of the people doing the job. 

So there’s some assumption that, let's take Azure cloud, for example. So you go to Microsoft, and you say, I want some infrastructure in your space. Now Microsoft would secure that infrastructure to an extent. Now you need to also bring in your internal policies and security practices, to ensure that whatever infrastructure that you’ve been provisioned in the cloud, is also secure to your standards. And really, that's where the job is because the technologies are out there. Right? But you need to ensure that the integration that needs to be done is done. 
0:8:18.980 --> 0:9:25.830
One thing that is key, really with this cloud infrastructure is you having visibility, you know, because your attack surface is larger, and without visibility, then you are just pretending you're running security. You're not doing security so visibility is key. One challenge is over the years, we've deployed solutions that are purely for devices on-prem. You know, so some organisations would have to, for example, upgrade their sim to one that can pull logs from the cloud infrastructure. And you need to also know you need to do that. 

There's some governance around that also because you don't just move everything to the cloud, you know, there are regulatory requirements. And because of the way some applications are, you need to also agree as an organisation. What part of your critical infrastructure do you want to move to the cloud? You also need to have your cloud strategy in place before that. Are you running a full cloud infrastructure or are you running on a hybrid format? Or how do you want to run it? So there's some governance work that needs to be done around all that migration before you start moving things to the cloud, because if you don't do that, then you're just running some haphazard approach that won't give you the right results. 
0:9:25.980 --> 0:9:59.480
The other challenge is, we need to get to a point where cybersecurity practices are now automated. You know, it's not about some guy coming into, oh, I'm coming to do a pen test, or I'm going to review this application. We need to have automation in our processes that ensure that we're continuously monitoring for threats, right, because it's outside of your perimeter now, you know. And to make it worse really, so it's not a case of, I have an infrastructure in the cloud, and I can say. I'll give you a typical example if you have an API to connect to some application or whatever on-prem. 

Because the IP subnet you have in the cloud is a large subnet, because those IP addresses might change at any time, Microsoft might do something and move you to a different IP, whatever. You're creating permission from your firewall to a large subnet in the cloud. Right. Now, that expands your threat landscape immediately. So how do you ensure that outside of that, you're able to get down granular to say, okay, this particular API is only accessing this, this permission is granted for exactly this activity? You now need to understand exactly what the developers are building and what that application is meant to be doing to deploy the right security infrastructure for the particular solution. 
0:10:6.900 --> 0:10:14.530
Host: Thank you Ade. Thank you. So are you saying based on your experience, you know, this is the way to go?
0:10:14.340 --> 0:10:32.840
Adeoluwa: Well, that's where everyone is going to and if you're not going down that route, then you get left behind. And to be frank, if you look at the sort of technology solutions that OEMs are putting out there, these days, they're all cloud-centric. You know, and I don't serve, I know that as part of this question that is talking about predictions or whatever, I don't have any predictions, Physical infrastructure will still exist, but it's all gonna be hybrid and I see a 75% cloud and 25% on-prem. Yeah.

Host: Interesting. Okay. Experience at my bank. Are there any other critical security questions that every commercial bank or every organisation, in general, should ask and have answers to before using the cloud?